S3:
----
S3 Storage Classes:
    1. S3 Standard:
        99.999999999% (11 9s) durability and 99.99% availability.
        Supports SSL encryption of data in transit and at rest.
        Minimum Storage Duration: Unlimited.
        Retrieval Fee: No Fee.
    2. S3 Standard - Infrequent Access:
        For data that is accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed.
        Combination of low cost and high performance.    
        99.999999999% (11 9s) durability and 99.99% availability.
        Supports SSL encryption of data in transit and at rest.
        Minimum Storage Duration: 30 Days.
        Retrieval Fee: per GB retrieved.
        Data deleted from S3-IA tier within 30 days will be charged for a full 30 days.
    3. Glacier:
        Extremely low cost design is ideal for long-term archive.
        99.999999999% (11 9s) durability.
        Minimum Storage Duration: 90 Days.
        Data deleted from Glacier w/in 90 days are charged a fee of $0.03 per GB.
        Retrieval Fee: per GB retrieved. 
    4. Reduced Redundancy Storage:
        To store noncritical, reproducible data at lower levels of redundancy.
        99.99% durability and 99.99% availability.
        
        
1. Amazon S3 "Transfer Acceleration" enables fast easy and secure transfer of files over long distances between your client and S3.
        It utilizes the CloudFront Edge Network to accelerate your upload to S3.
        Instead of uploading directly to your bucket, you can use a distinct URL to upload file directly to edge location, 
            which will then transfer file to S3.
        You will get a distinct URL to upload to: <bucket>.s3-accelerate.amazonaws.com
2. Maximum object size allowed for multi-part file upload = 5 TB. For objects larger than 100 mb consider multi-part upload.
3. By default, data in S3 is not encrypted, but it can be when right APIs are called for Server Side Encryption (SSE).
4. To let users access contents on S3 bucket through CloudFront only but not directly via S3 URLs, 
        create a Origin Access Identity (OAI) for CloudFront and grant it access to S3 buckets objects.
5. Encrypting data in S3 bucket:
    Server side encryption:
        Use Server-Side Encryption with Amazon S3-Managed Keys (SSE-S3)
        Use Server-Side Encryption with AWS KMS-Managed Keys (SSE-KMS)
        Use Server-Side Encryption with Customer-Provided Keys (SSE-C)
    Client side encryption:
        Using an AWS KMS–Managed Customer Master Key (CMK)
        Using a Client-Side Master Key
6. Enable Access Logging in S3 buckets to track requests for access to bucket.
7. Following services natively encrypts the data at rest within AWS region:
        Glacier and Storage Gateway.
8.     The bucket name can be between 3 and 63 characters long, and can contain only lower-case characters, numbers, periods, and dashes.
    Each label in the bucket name must start with a lowercase letter or number.
    The bucket name cannot contain underscores, end with a dash, have consecutive periods, or use dashes adjacent to periods.
    The bucket name cannot be formatted as an IP address (198.51.100.24).
9. S3 Static website end point:
    US East (N. Virginia) region: <bucket-name>.S3-website-<region>.amazonaws.com
    EU (Frankfurt) region: <bucket-name>.S3-website.<region>.amazonaws.com
10. Export from Glacier not supported by AWS import/export
11. Bucket URL:
    If your bucket is in the US East (N. Virginia) Region, you must use the http://s3.amazonaws.com/<bucket> endpoint.
    else http://s3-<aws_region>.amazonaws.com/<bucket>
12. You can delete up to 1000 objects in a single HTTP request. Amazon does not charge you for using Multi-Object Delete.
13. S3 buckets in all Regions provide read-after-write consistency for PUTS of new objects and eventual consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES.
14. By default, customers can provision up to 100 buckets per AWS account.
15. You specify a region when you create your Amazon S3 bucket. 
        Within that region, your objects are redundantly stored on multiple devices across multiple facilities.
16. There is no Data Transfer charge for data transferred within an Amazon S3 Region, but across regions...it is charged.
17. You can retrieve 10 GB of your Amazon Glacier data per month for free.
18. You will be charged for deleting objects from Amazon Glacier that are less than 3 months old.
19. S3 event notification messages can be sent through either SNS, SQS, or directly to AWS Lambda.
        There are no additional charges from Amazon S3 for event notifications. 
        You pay only for use of SNS or SQS to deliver event notifications, or for the cost of running the AWS Lambda function.
20. There is no additional charge for hosting static websites on Amazon S3.
21. S3 Object Tags are priced at $0.01 per 10,000 tags per month. 
22. Existing data in the bucket prior to enabling Cross Region Replication is not replicated.
23. Objects stored in Glacier incur costs for at least 90 days, even if they are deleted earlier.
24: S3 Storage LifeCycle (Objects must be minimum 128kb in size):
        Move to S3-Infrequent Access: minimum 30 days after object's creation.
        Archive to Glacier: minimum 60 days after object's creation / 30 days after IA.
        Permanently Delete: minimum 61 days after object's creation.
25. Storage Gateways: A virtual machine running on premise, its of 4 types:
        File Gateway (NFS): Stored directly on S3.
        Volume Gateway: Block Based, backed up as snapshots of your volume and stored as EBS snapshots, is of 2 types:
            Stored Volume: 
                Data is asynchronously backed up as EBS snapshots.
                1 GB to 16 TB in size.
            Cached Volume:
                Retains frequently accessed data locally in your stored gateway.
                1 GB to 32 TB in size.
            Tape Gateway:
                Cost effective solution to backup data in cloud.            
26. In Glacier, a single archive can be as large as 40 TB, You can store unlimited number of archive.
        Every archive is assigned a unique id at creation.
        Archives are immutable.
        Uploading archive is synchronous operation.
EC2:
-----
0. Instance Types:
    On-Demand: Fixed rate by hour with no commitment.
    Reserved: Capacity reservation, offer significant discount, 1 or 3 year terms.
    Spot: Enables you to bid for the instance capacity, greater savings if your app has flexible start/end times.
    Dedicated: Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use.
1. Stopping and starting an instance causes the instance to be provisioned on different hardware.
2. T2,M4 and C4 are instance type which are EBS backed only.
3. There is no cost of transferring data from EC2 to S3 only if they are in same region.
4. Reserved Instances provide significant discounts (75%) compared to on-demand instances. They are bought upfront for specified duration.
    Unlike on-demand instances there is no cost difference if you stop the instances.
    So to save the charges on reserved instances:
        terminate the instances and sell them in AWS Reserved instances marketplace.
5. Elastic Beanstalk and EC2 are services that allow developer access the underlying infrastructure.
6. For EC2 instance to allow SSH, the outbound network ACL needs to be modified to allow outbound traffic.
7. When designing which type of EC2 instance to use, you need to know I/O and memory requirement.
8. Attaching EC2 Instances to Your Auto Scaling Group:
        The instance is in the running state.
        The AMI used to launch the instance must still exist.
        The instance is not a member of another Auto Scaling group.
        The instance is in the same Availability Zone as the Auto Scaling group.
9. Use Spot instances if your application is designed to recover gracefully from EC2 instance failure because even if you lose spot instance
        you app can recover.
10. Batch Processing Job = Spot Instances.
11. Standard Reserved Instances:
        It can be migrated across AZs.
        It is specific of an instance type, however you can change its size of the same type.
        It can be used to lower cost.
        Can not be used in Auto-Scaling.
12. When EC2 instance terminates:
        For EBS backed AMI, any volume attached apart from OS volume is preserved.
        All snapshots of EBS volumes with OS are preserved.
        For S3 backed AMI, all data in local (ephemeral) hard drive is deleted.
13. Various stages in EC2 instance's lifecycle:
        Pending, Running, Rebooting, Shutting-Down, Terminated, Stopping, Stopped.
14. Get info about EC2 instances from CLI: aws ec2 describe-instances
15. Public IP addresses assigned to running instances:
        http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/public-ipv4
16. I2 instances are used for:
        NoSQL databases
        Clustered databases
        OLTP
17. Maximum number of on-demand EC2 instances: 20
18. It is possible to transfer a reserved instance from one Availability Zone to another.
19. Different types of virtualisation available on EC2? - Para-Virtual (PV) & Hardware Virtual Machine (HVM)
20. EC2 and EMR allows you root access (ie you can login using SSH)
21. What is the underlying Hypervisor for EC2? - Xen
22. Reserved instances are available for multi-AZ deployments. - Yes
23. CAN NOT move reserved instance from one region to another
24. Security Groups:
        1 instance can have one or more security groups.
        Any rule change in SG applies immediately.
        You can specify allow rules but not deny rules.
        Can not block specific ip addresses in SG, use ACL for that.
25. If you are using an Amazon EBS volume as a root partition, 
        you will need to set the Delete On Terminate flag to "N" if you want your Amazon EBS volume to persist after instance termination.
26. Every instance launched by EC2 has a reservation ID. The ID has a one-to-one relationship with an instance launch request, 
        but can be associated with more than one instance if you launch multiple instances using the same launch request.
VPC:
-----
1. AWS does not want you to waste Elastic IPs, so you will be charged ONLY when:
    if EIP created but not allocate for any instance.
    if attached to any stopped instance. 
2. You need Network ACL for communication between subnets.
3. Having a VPN connection is considered as backup to AWS Direct Connect, 
        To increase the fault tolerance of the connection we can have another Direct Connect connection
            so if one goes down, other will be active.
4. Network ACL Rules:
        Rules are evaluated starting with the lowest numbered rule. As soon as a rule matches traffic, 
            it's applied regardless of any higher-numbered rule that may contradict it.
5. In VPC, an instance retains its private ip address when it is stopped.
6. Remember, for an instance to be directly available from the internet 
        it has to have an elastic ip and it must be within a subnet that has a routing table 
        where non-local traffic is routed via an internet gateway. 
        So, an elastic ip and an igw in the routing table are two criterion for an instance 
            to be available directly from the internet.            
7. You cannot delete the "local" route from your route table, 
    and anytime a new route table is created within a VPC, the "local" route is included by default.
8. If DNS hostname option in VPC is not set to 'yes', then instances launched in the subnet will not have DNS names,
        to resolve this, VPC configuration needs to be changed.
9. When in new VPC, subnets are not able to communicate, reason: the Security Group has not been modified to allow the required traffic.
10. For VPC Peering, all VPCs must be from same region.
11. If the CIDR block of the peer VPC is 10.0.0.0/16, you can specify a portion 10.0.0.0/28 or a specific ip address 10.0.0.7/32
12. Full mesh configuration of 3 VPCs:
    A -> B, A -> C, B -> C
13. You can not create a VPC peering connection between VPCs with matching or overlapping IPv4 CIDR blocks. 
14. For a privet subnet to access internet, use NAT gateway to route requests from private subnet.
15. While creating a NAT Gateway:
        Assign a elastic IP to NAT gateway.
        Modify the route tables of private subnet.
16. You can not route traffic to NAT gateway through a VPC peering connection.
17. A NAT Gateway with failed status is visible in VPC console for a short while (1 hour) and deleted afterwords.    
18. 1 Subnet equals to 1 availability zone, can not span subnets across multi AZs.
19. Security groups can span multiple subnets and multi AZs, same with Network ACL and Route Tables.
20. Only one Internet Gateway can be attached to one VPC.
21. VPC peering is done in a star configuration, ie. 1 central VPC connects with 4 others, No Transitive peering.
22. Can not attach multiple Internet Gateways to a VPC. 1 VPC = 1 Internet Gateways.
23. When we create a new VPC, it create a new Route Table, ACL and Security Group automatically.
24. NAT instances must be provisioned into public subnet and must be part of private subnet's route table.
25. VPC Flow Logs:VPC Flow Logs is a feature that enables you to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces 
    in your VPC. Flow log data is stored using Amazon CloudWatch Logs. 
    After you've created a flow log, you can view and retrieve its data in Amazon CloudWatch Logs.
26. 4 separate segments, Dev, Test, UAT & Production - A separate VPC for each segment. 
        Then create VPN tunnels from your HQ to each VPC so the appropriate teams can each speak to their dedicated VPC.
27. When you create new subnets within a custom VPC, by default they can communicate with each other, across availability zones.
28. Security Groups (SG) are stateless, means return traffic is automatically allowed, Network Access Control Lists (ACL) are statfull.
29. NACL are very fine grained, they can be used to deny specific IP addresses for specific ports.
30. Security Groups supports allow rules only, everything is denied by default.
31. SG are at instance level while ACL are subnet level.
32. One Subnet == One NACL
33. VPC comes with a default NACL which allows all inbound/outbound traffic, but when you create a custom one it denies all traffic.
34. To Block a specific IP address use NACL.
35. VPC should have at least one route in associated routing table that uses internet gateway.
            
EBS:
-----
1. To secure data at rest in EBS volume, use an encrypted file system on top of EBS volume.
2. Even if an EBS volume is attached to EC2 instance, 
    you can change its size, volume type and (if io1 volume) adjust the IOPS performance without detaching it.
3. AWS charges for the EBS Volume attached to the stopped EC2 instance.
4. When creation of snapshot is initiated but not completed:
        It can be used while snapshot is in progress as snapshots occurs asynchronously.
        The point-in-time snapshots are created instantly, but the status of the snapshots is pending untill process is complete.
5. Encryption in EBS Volumes:
        supported in all EBS volume types.
        snapshots are automatically encrypted if volume is.
        not available for all ec2 instance types.
        existing and shared volume can not be encrypted.
6. EC2 supports 2 types of block devices:
        Instance Store Volume.
        EBS Volume.
7. To increase Write throughput, 
        Use array of EBS volumes.
        Increase the size of EC2 instance.
8. EBS volumes are replicated within same AZ.        
9. To create a volume to be available in another AZ, you first need to take a snapshot, then create a volume from this snapshot in 
    new AZ.        
10. While creating a Provisioned IOPS volume in AWS, Min/Max IOPS is 100/20000, use it when you need more than 10000 IOPS.
    but when volume size is given, max ratio of IOPS to volume size is 50:1, so if volume size is 8 gb, max IOPS is 400.
11. You can not change the CMK (Customer Master Key) that is associated with a existing snapshot or encrypted volume,
    however, you can associate a different CMK during snapshot copy creation.
11. All data that is moving between volume and S3, is not encrypted.
12. Snapshots of both data and root volumes can be encrypted and attached an AMI.
13. You can not enable encryption for an existing EBS volume, instead, you must create a new one.
14. When you create EBS Volume in an AZ, it is automatically replicated in that AZ.
15. An EBS volume can be attached to one instance at a time in same AZ.
16. An EBS volume can be attached to any instance in same AZ.
17. Snapshots are Incremental Backups of EBS volumes.
18. To encrypt a volume's data by means of snapshot copying:
        Create a snapshot of your unencrypted EBS volume. This snapshot is also unencrypted.
        Copy the snapshot while applying encryption parameters. The resulting target snapshot is encrypted.
        Restore the encrypted snapshot to a new volume, which is also encrypted.
19. If an Amazon EBS volume is an additional partition (ie not the root volume) , can I detach it without stopping the instance? - Yes
20. If you change the volume on the fly, you must wait 6 hours to make another change.
21. You can scale EBS volume up only.
22. Termination protection is turend off by default.
23. Root volume can not be encrypted by default, you need a third party tool.
24. Volumes exists on EBS, snapshots on S3.
25. Encrypted snapshots can not be shared.
26. You can assign roles to EC2 instances only AFTER it has been provisioned.
27. Maximum size of an EBS provision IOPS SSD volume - 16TiB
28. EBS volume is replicated to physical hardware within same AZ, so if AZ fails then WEBS volume will fail.
29. EBS Encryption:
        You can not encrypt a volume once its created, after that u need to use some local encypting tool to secure the data.
        If you unmount the volume, you can not encrypt the volume.
        If volume is not encrypted, then snapshot will also be not encrypted.
30. You cannot encrypt a volume where an OS is installed.
31. Recommended practice for taking a snapshot of a RAID:
        Freeze the filesystem OR unmount RAID array OR shut down the instance and then take the snapshot.
32. RAID 5: Good for read, bad for write, AWS discourages this on EBS.
33. RAID 10: Strippping and mirroring, good redundancy and performance.
34. Root volumes are configured to delete on instance termination, but this can be changed during or after instance creation.
35. M3 and C3 are SSD backed storage.
RDS:
-----
1. You can not access OS of RDS as it is a fully managed service by AWS.
2. To host a DB in AWS's RDS service, your VPC must have atleast one subnet in atleast two of the AZ.
3. DB2 is the only db service not provided by AWS.
4. Read Replica in RDS:
        provide elasticity.
        improve performance of primary database by taking workload from it.
        But Not Automatic Failover in case of AZ failure.
5. Secondary instances in RDS can not be used for write purpose, they are only for read purpose.
6. RDS backup retention period:    valid values are 0 with max as 35 days.
7. To apply a group of database specific settings to RDS, use Parameter Groups.
8. To reduce cost, consider not using a multi AZ RDS deployment for the development database.
9. When Failing over, Amazon RDS simply flips the CNAME (Canonical Name Record) of DB instance to point to the standby.
10. Synchronous replication = AWS Multi AZ RDS
11. Read Replica in Databases:
        Used for scaling, not for disaster recovery.
        Must have automatic backup turned on.
        Can have upto 5 read replica.
        Can have read replica of read replica (watch out for latency)
        Each read replica will have its own DNS end point.
        Can not have read replica that have Multi-AZ.
12. Oracle does not support read replica feature.
13. When creating an RDS instance you can select which Availability Zone in which to deploy your instance.
14. How many copies of my data does RDS - Aurora store by default? - 6
15. In RDS what is the maximum size for a Microsoft SQL Server DB Instance with SQL Server Express edition? - 10GB
16. Amazon RDS does not currently support increasing storage on a SQL Server Db instance.
17. RDS is not fully managed, but DynamoDB is.
18. M3 and C3 are SSD backed storage.

SQS & SWF:
-----------
1. SQS queues does not preserve the order of messages.
2. By default, SQS queue is configured for short polling, which means that queue is polled every so often for new messages.
    Long polling allowes for shorter poll time but taking in more messages during long polling cycles.
    It can be done by setting the ReceiveMessageWaitTimeSeconds attribute to a value greater than 0.
3. SQS queue can have upto 120,000 messages.
4. The size of the SQS message can be from 1 kb to 256 kb.
5. SQS message retention period is from 1 minute to 14 days, default is 4 days.
6. SWF Decision Task:
        It tells the decider task the state of the workflow execution.
7. You can leverage SQS and SWF both to utilize on-premise server and EC2 instances for your decoupled app. 
8. SWF is NOT a valid SNS subscribers.
9. FIFO queue provides exactly once processing. 
10. SWF Actors:
        Workflow Starters: App that starts a workflow, could be e-commerce website/app
        Workflow Deciders: controls the flow of activity tasks in workflow, It decide what to do next.
        Activity Workers: carry out tasks.
Elastic Load Balancer (ELB):
-----------------------------
1. Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) = Across Multi AZ (not Regions).
2. You can use "ELB Request Tracing" to track HTTP requests from clients in Application Load Balancer.
3. If there are minimum 4 instances required to be run, deploy them in 3 AZs with 2 instances each, 
    so even if one AZ goes down, you'll have 4 instances running.
4. Need Elasticity = Elastic Load Balancer and/or Weighted Routing Policy in Route 53.
5. Benefit of Application load balancer over Classic is:
    Support of path based routing.
    Support for host-based routing.
    Support for routing requests to multiple applications on a single EC2 instance. 
    Support for containerized applications.
    Support for monitoring the health of each service independently.
    Improved load balancer performance.
6. We can create a "internal" load balancer and place database servers behind it.
7. Application load balancer does not support TCP protocol.
8. Register or Deregister EC2 Instances for Classic ELB:
    Registering an EC2 instance adds it to your load balancer.
    Deregistering an EC2 instance removes it from your load balancer, the load balancer 
        stops routing requests to an instance as soon as it is deregistered.
9. To ensure that Classic ELB distribute incoming requests evenly across all instances in it availability zones, 
    enable cross-zone load balancing.
10. Logging in Classic ELB:
        Access Logging is disabled by default.
        No additional charges for access logs.
        Logs are stored in S3.
11. Applications based on Microservices architecture are best suited for Application Load Balancer.
12. To track HTTP requests from client in Application ELB, use ELB request tracking.
13. Application Load Balancer is best suited for load balancing of HTTP and
        HTTPS traffic, Classic Load Balancer provides basic load balancing
        across multiple Amazon EC2 instances and operates at both the request
        level and connection level, Network Load Balancer is best suited for
        load balancing of TCP traffic.
14. Network Load Balancer is best suited for load balancing of TCP traffic: 
        HTTP, HTTPS, EMAIL, EMAIL-JSON, SQS, SMS, LAMBDA, APPLICATION.
        
Auto Scaling:
-------------
1. Processes:
    Launch: Adds a new EC2 instance to the group, increasing its capacity.
    Terminate: Removes an EC2 instance from the group, decreasing its capacity.
    HealthCheck: Checks the health of the instances.
    ReplaceUnhealthy: Terminates instances that are marked as unhealthy and later creates new instances to replace them. 
    AZRebalance: Balances the number of EC2 instances in the group across the Availability Zones in the region.
    AlarmNotification: Accepts notifications from CloudWatch alarms that are associated with the group.
    ScheduledActions: Performs scheduled actions that you create.
    AddToLoadBalancer: Adds instances to the attached load balancer or target group when they are launched.
        If you suspend AddToLoadBalancer, Auto Scaling launches the instances but does not add them to the load balancer or target group. 
        If you resume the AddToLoadBalancer process, Auto Scaling resumes adding instances to the load balancer 
        or target group when they are launched. However, 
        Auto Scaling does not add the instances that were launched while this process was suspended. 
        You must register those instances manually.
2. Default Termination Policy:
    The default termination policy is designed to help ensure that your network architecture spans Availability Zones evenly. 
    When using the default termination policy, Auto Scaling selects an instance to terminate as follows:
        Auto Scaling determines whether there are instances in multiple Availability Zones. 
        If so, it selects the Availability Zone with the most instances and at least one instance that is not protected from scale in.
        If there is more than one Availability Zone with this number of instances, 
        Auto Scaling selects the Availability Zone with the instances that use the oldest launch configuration.
3. Auto Scaling periodically performs health checks on the instances in your Auto Scaling group and identifies any instances that are unhealthy.
    if any, it terminate the instance and launch a new one.
4. When the instance enter the InService state, the cooldown period starts. When the cooldown period expires, 
    any suspended scaling actions resume.
5. To ensure that a custom launch script is run whenever a instance is spun up in an autoscaling group, 
    use Lifecycle hooks to launch the custom script.
6. If an instance is reported unhealthy either by auto scaling health check or ELB status check, Auto scaling will consider worst case scenario
    and always mark instance unhealthy and remove it.
7. Launch Configurations: A launch configuration is a template that an Auto Scaling group uses to launch EC2 instances.
    When you create an Auto Scaling group, you must specify a launch configuration. 
    You can specify your launch configuration with multiple Auto Scaling groups. 
    However, you can only specify one launch configuration for an Auto Scaling group at a time, and you can't modify a launch configuration 
    after you've created it. 
    Therefore, if you want to change the launch configuration for your Auto Scaling group, 
    you must create a new launch configuration and then update your Auto Scaling group with the new launch configuration.
8. When you make a change in the security groups or Network ACLs, they are applied immediately.
9. Minimize latency = Placement Groups
10. Placement Groups: 
        It enables applications to participate in a low network latency, high network throughput, 10 Gbps network. 
        examples: Grid computing, Hadoop or Cassandra cluster.
        They can not span across multi AZs.
        Only certain type of instances can be launched in Placement Groups.
        Can not merge Placement Groups.
11. When I create a new security group, all outbound traffic is allowed by default.
API Gateway:
------------
1. AWS CloudFront is automatically integrated with API Gateway in background to ensure batter response.
2. to have separate API version for prod, stage, local env; use Stages. A stage prescribes a unique base URL:
    https://{restapi-id}.execute-api.{region}amazonaws.com/{stageName}
3. API Stage is used to deploy API.    
4. API CORS can be used to ensure that API resources can receive request from other domains.
5. ERROR 429: Too many error responses to the client, consider changing throttling litmus for client.
6. API Caching is not available in AWS Free tier.
7. Path /ping and /sping are reserved by AWS for health check.
8. Stage Variables: name:value pairs that can be defined as environment variables. 
    for ex: they can pass config parameters to lambda via mapping template.
9. Use AWS service proxy to use API Gateway to make calls to Amazon S3, SNS, Kinesis.

Route53:
--------
1. When you are using Route53 for a website hosted in S3, S3 bucket name must be same as domain name.
2. If you want to point a domain name to ELB in Route 53, Alias it with type A record.
3. Setting Up Amazon Route 53 Zone Apex Supportwith ELB:
        Create an A record aliased to the Load Balancer DNS names.
    
CloudFront:
-----------
1. AWS CloudFront is a global Content Delivery Network (CDN) that accelerate the delivery of web contents.
2. If CloudFront cache expiration time is set to a low value, application's origin will get hit more often.
3. Following can be used as origin server in CloudFront:
        S3 bucket, Webserver running on EC2, Webserver running in own datacenter.
        RDS can not be an origin server in CloudFront.

CloudWatch & CloudTrail:
-------------------------
1. Memory Utilisation metrics not offered directly by CloudWatch
2. CloudTrail monitors all API calls to AWS.
3. You can use CloudWatch logs to monitor applications and systems using log data.
4. In CloudWatch, if the threshold for scale down is too low, then instances will keep on scaling down rapidly.
        to optimize the cost, change the scale down metric to higher threshold.
5. In Basic monitoring of EC2 instances, CloudWatch has minimum time interwal of 5 min.
6. CloudWatch supports following 3 retention schedules:
        1 minute datapoints are available for 15 days.
        5 minute datapoints are available for 63 days.
        1 hour datapoints are available for 455 days.
7. When you enable CloudTrail, you need to provide a S3 bucket where all the logs can be written to.
8. A CloudTrail deliver events to S3 bucket, CloudWatch logs and events.
9. When you apply a CloudTrail that applies to all regions, you automatically get events for the new regions and
    you receive events from all regions in a single bucket.
10. By default, log files delivered by CloudTrails to your bucket is encrypted by server side encryption (SSE-S3) and
        you can also opt to encrypt files using AWS KMS managed keys.
11. In CloudWatch, an alarm has three possible states:
    OK, ALARM, INSUFFICIENT_DATA.
12. To send log data from EC2 instances use CloudWatch Logs Agent.    
    
    
Kinesis:
---------
1. Retention period for events in Kinesis is 24 hours by default.
2. Kinesis Streams:
        Kinesis Streams:
            Data stored in Shards for by default 24 hours, Max 7 Days.
        Kinesis Firehose:
            Can use Lambda to analyse data in real time. No data retention.
        Kinesis Analytics:
            Can run sql query when data in Streams/Firehose.
        
Redshift:
----------
1. RedShift uses block size of 1 MB for its columnar storage.
CloudFormation:
----------------
1. Create a duplicate of resources in different region = AWS CloudFormation
2. There is no additional charge for CloudFormation. You only pay for the AWS resources that are created (EC2, ELB etc.)
3. Resources are mandatory while creating CloudFormation template.
        
DynamoDB:
----------
1.  DynamoDB stores small size and structured data, allows low latency for read and write access to items ranging from 1 byte to 400 kb.
        S3 stores large objects and unstructured blobs from 0 byte to upto 5 TB.
2. Store Session data in RDS, ElastiCache, DynamoDB
3. Why should I use Cross-Region replication in DynamoDB:
    Efficient Disaster recovery
    Faster Reads
    Easier Traffic Management
    Easy Regional Migration
    Live Data Migration
4. In DynamoDB, when you create a table you specify that how much provisioned throughput capacity
        you want to reserve for reads and writes.
5. You "CAN NOT" select a specific Availability Zone in which to place your DynamoDB Table.
6. DynamoDB is fully managed.        
        
Amazon Secure Token Service (STS):
----------------------------------
1. AssumeRoleWithSAML: Returns a set of temporary security credentials for users who have been authenticated via a SAML authentication response.
    The temporary security credentials are valid for the duration of 1 hour by default.                
2. AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity: If you need to access from a web application with a web identity provider such as Facebook, Google etc.
3. IAM users can request temporary security credentials for their own use by calling the AWS STS GetSessionToken API. 
        The default expiration for these temporary credentials is 12 hours; the minimum is 15 minutes, and the maximum is 36 hours.
4. With web identity federation, you don't need to create custom sign-in code or manage your own user identities. 
    Instead, users of your app can sign in using a well-known identity provider (IdP) —such as Login with Amazon, Facebook, Google.
    
Elastic Container Service:
---------------------------
1. To ensure that right docker images are used, use Task Definition Files.
2. If you need to connect to the registries hosted on Docker Hub, use Private Registry Authentication.
3. Use Docker Diagnostics to check for the errors on docker containers.
4. Use port mapping in ECS to send traffic to host container.

AWS Security White-Paper
-------------------------
1. AWS is responsible for the Cloud infrastructure and you are responsible for anything you put on the cloud.
2. AWS is responsible for the security configuration of the following managed services:
    DynamoDB,
    RDS, 
    Redshift,
    EMR,
    ElastiCache,
    WorkSpaces.
3. You are responsible for the security configuration of the following IaaS services:
    EC2,
    VPC,
    S3.
4. Storage Decommission:
        All decommissioned magnetic devices are degaussed and physically destroyed in accordance 
        with industry standard practices.
        Different instances running on same physical machine are isolated from each other via Xen Hypervisor.

Various:
---------
1. Pilot Light: a scenario in which a minimal version of environment is always running.
2. In Consolidated Billing, there are two type of accounts:
        Paying Account and Linked Account, there can be max 20 linked account for consolidated billing.
3. Amazon Resource Names (ARN) are used to uniquely identify AWS resources.
4. Trusted Adviser offers insight into:
    Cost Optimisation, Performance, Security, Fault Tolerance.
5. Need to deploy virtual desktops = Amazon Workspaces, Leverage existing security controls = AWS Directory Service.
6. Type of end points exposed by API Gateway: HTTPS
7. AWS Security Token Service (STS) used to create and provide trusted users with temporary security credentials to AWS.
8. In Policy Document, there are 2 types of permissions: User based and Resource based.
9. In order to implement disaster recovery, you should copy the AMI to desired region, as AMIs are different region wise.
10. Elastic Beanstalk: easily deploy and manage application in the cloud.
11. You can attach a Elastic Network Interface (ENI) to an instance 
        when it's running (hot attach), 
        when it's stopped (warm attach), or 
        when the instance is being launched (cold attach).
12. CloudHSM: A dedicated appliance that is used to store security keys.
13. The recovery time objective (RTO) is the targeted duration of time and a service level within which a 
        business process must be restored after a disaster (or disruption) in order to avoid unacceptable 
        consequences associated with a break in business continuity.
14. To mitigate DDoS attacks:
        Use CloudFront distribution for both static and dynamic contents.
        Use ELB with Auto Scaling Groups at web, app and rds tier.
        Add CloudWatch alert to look for high network in and CPU utilization.
15. Use CloudHSM if you have requirements which are high on security like credit card processing.    
16. Add tags tp production/developement instances and use these tags while controlling access via an IAM policy.
17. revoke-security-group-ingress
        removes one or more rules from security group.
18. RDP Port Number: 3389
19. AWS WAF is a web application firewall that helps protect your web application from common security threats from outside world.
20. Once you loose your AWS keys, it can not be recovered.
21. AWS Budgets can help manage the budgets of all resources.
22. NAT based AMI are special in nature.
23. The Bastion host needs to be present in public subnet.
24. The amount of temp space allocated for using lambda function per allocation is 512 MB.
25. Default execution time for lambda function: 3 seconds, but you can change it from 1 to 300 seconds.
        Maximum execution time for lambda function: 300 seconds.
        Languages in Lambda: Java, Node.js, Python, C#
26. Single sign-on = SAML 2.0
27. Golden Image = An AMI that has been constructed from a customised image.  
28. Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) defines a way for client web applications that are loaded in one domain to interact
        with resources in a different domain. 
29. With CORS support in Amazon S3, you can build rich client-side web applications with Amazon S3 
        and selectively allow cross-origin access to your Amazon S3 resources.
        for example: hosting a website in an Amazon S3 bucket.
30. Troubleshooting CORS Issues:
        Verify that the CORS configuration is set on the bucket.
        Capture the complete request and response using a tool of your choice and verify the request has the Origin header.
31. AWS Direct Connect: AWS Direct Connect makes it easy to establish a dedicated network connection from your premises to AWS.
32. Customer Gateway: An Amazon VPC VPN connection links your data center (or network) to your Amazon VPC virtual private cloud (VPC). 
    A customer gateway is the anchor on your side of that connection. It can be a physical or software appliance. 
    The anchor on the AWS side of the VPN connection is called a virtual private gateway.
33. To start a Lambda function when an event occurs in cloud-watch, create lambda function with trigger.
34. What are the four levels of AWS premium support? -
        Basic,Developer,Business,Enterprise    
35. Lambda monitors total requests, latency and error rate metrics.
        It does not monitors database changes.

Instance Types:
----------------
D - Density - Fileserver/Hadoop/mapReduce
R - Ram - Memory Intensive apps/DBs/in-memory databases
M - General purpose (Main Choice) - App servers
C - Compute - CPU intensive apps/DBs/High performance web servers/batch processing
G - Graphics - Video encoding/3d apps
I - IOPS - NoSQL.Data Warehousing
F - FPFA - Hardware acceleration for code
T - Cheap General (T2 Micro) - Lowest cost, Webserver, Small DBs.
P - Graphics (Pics) - Machine Learning.
X - Extreme - Spark, Hana
EBS Only:
    T2
    M4
    C5
    C4
    R4
        
        
SSD Only:
    M3
    C3        
    X1
    X1e
    R3
    F1
    I3            
